---
author: minko_gechev
categories:
- AngularJS
- Any
- Aspect-Oriented Programming
- JavaScript
- Programming
date: 2013-12-04T00:00:00Z
tags:
- AngularJS
- JavaScript
- OpenSource
- Programming
title: AngularAOP v0.1.0
url: /2013/12/04/angularaop-v0-1-0/
---

In this blog post I&#8217;ll introduce you the new way of annotating services included in AngularAOP v0.1.0. 

First, why we need a new way for annotation? In v0.0.1 the annotations were made in services&#8217; bodies. It was something like this:

{{< highlight javascript >}}myApp.factory('AwesomeService', function (execute, d1, d2,...,dn) {
  var api = /* definition of our service api */
  return execute(Logger).onThrowOf(execute(Authorization).before(api, {
    methodPattern: /Special|getArticleById/,
    argsPatterns: [/^user$/, /^[Ii]d(_num)?$/]
  }));
});
{{< / highlight >}}

This way of annotating services led to coupling between the services and the API of the AngularAOP&#8217;s aspect factory service called **execute**. By this coupling we weren&#8217;t able to reuse our services in new projects which don&#8217;t use AngularAOP.

v0.1.0 introduces a brand new way of annotation which doesn&#8217;t couple your services with AngularAOP at all! Now you can declaratively annotate your services in the config callback of your module. For the annotations is used object literal:

{{< highlight javascript >}}myApp.provider('AwesomeService', function () {
  return {
    $get: function (d1, d2,...,dn) {
      return {
        //API here
      };
    }
  };
});

myApp.config(function ($provide, executeProvider) {
  executeProvider.annotate($provide, {
    ArticlesCollection: {
      jointPoint: 'before',
      advice: 'Authorization',
      methodPattern: /Special|getArticleById/,
      argsPatterns: [/^user$/, /^[Ii]d(_num)?$/]
    }
  });
});
{{< / highlight >}}

As you see in AwesomeService you don&#8217;t have any dependencies which couples you with AngularAOP! Awesome, right? Internally AngularAOP uses $provide.decorator to decorate your target services. May be the only drawback from this approach is that you must define your services as providers because otherwise AngularAOP won&#8217;t be able to use them in the config callback, in order to decorate them.